WhatsApp
Let's chat on WhatsApp
01732 753 101
info@chilliapple.co.uk
Contact
logo
What We do
Tech Stack
Need a developer
Case Studies
About
AI Development Company
Accelerate your growth with artificial intelligence solutions
Speak to an expert today

Name*
Email address*
Telephone number*
Enquiry Type*
How can we help?*
Send Now
HomeAI Software Development
Transform your business with our AI software development services
As your partner AI development company, we build innovative solutions that optimise workflows, automate processes, and provide actionable insights for business growth. Our team analyses your needs to tailor solutions that resolves complex problems and fulfills business objectives seamlessly. We specialise in a comprehensive suite of AI consulting and development services that helps you yield tangible results.

At chilliapple, we have years of experience in building out-of-the-box applications. We deliver sophisticated AI-based solutions built with futuristic technologies and best practices. Our AI development team follows a holistic approach, prioritising security and compliance with industry regulations throughout the project.

AI Consulting
AI Consulting
Experience strategic artificial intelligence consulting services to resolve your key business problems efficiently. We navigate you through complex AI technologies with strategic advice and key insights.

Generative AI
Generative AI
We build generative AI models that empower businesses with automated and unique content generation and personalized recommendations capabilities and also boost user experiences. It also provides you non-plagiarised content in multimedia formats.

Smart AI Assistant and Chatbot
Smart AI Assistant and Chatbot
With hands-on experience in cutting-edge technology tools and modern AI and ML algorithms, we build efficient conversational bots. They mimic human-like interaction with the clients and can be seamlessly integrated into multiple platforms.

Custom AI App Development
Custom AI App Development
We tailor sophisticated apps with optimal AI technologies to deliver immersive user experiences with excellent speed performance. Achieve specific business objectives with our personalised AI development solutions.

AI Integration
AI Integration
Extend your business capabilities with AI integration solutions into your existing systems, ensuring a smooth transition and maximising the advantages of artificial intelligence across your operations.

Machine Learning
Machine Learning
We dive into your needs to deploy suitable ML algorithms that help unlock deep insights for business growth. As a leading machine learning consultancy, we help identify opportunities with data that improve ROI.

Ready to optimise growth with
artificial intelligence?
Let's Connect
Technologies we use
Deepseek
We leverage the capabilities of this AI model for projects that require advanced natural language processing and reasoning capabilities. This is the best-fit for building customer service chatbots, educational AI assistants, etc.

OpenAI chatGPT 4.0
When your AI project involves processing both text and image inputs and working in multimode, GPT4 works exceptionally well. We implement this language model for projects that need visual search, human-like conversation capabilities, etc.

llama Meta
This large language model (LLM) by Meta AI is helpful in tailoring information retrieval systems, creative writing assistants, and more. It is also capable of translating text between different languages in real-time.

Gemini
This is a powerful AI ecosystem and belongs to the family of multimodal large language models. Gemini acts as excellent research assistance and helps with summarisation of documents, translation, and chatbot development projects.

AI can help you unlock the true business potential
Better decision-making
AI can identify patterns and trends in large datasets. This allows companies to make well-informed strategic decisions with lower risk of errors.

Enhanced efficiency
Automating repetitive tasks with AI frees up resources to focus on more complex and strategic work, boosting productivity.

Cost reduction
Optimisation of processes and inventory levels can significantly reduce operational costs and also the number of staff members required for a job.

Fraud detection
With AI software development solutions, companies can easily identify anomalies in data to detect fraudulent activity in real-time which helps to minimise losses.

Personalised customer experiences
Artificial intelligence helps to deliver powerful recommendations that enhance customer service

Innovation potential
Companies can explore new opportunities and develop innovative products and services by analysing data and uncovering new insights.

Want to see our recent work?
Delivering measurable impact across industries, we help both established enterprises and ambitious startups achieve sustainable success.



View All
Why choose chilliapple for AI services?
Founded in 2008 with a team of over 70

Strong AI understanding and industry-specific nuances

Hassle free development process

30 days free support post launch.

Fair, competitive pricing.

Transparent & clear communication at every stage.

Frequently asked questions
How much time is required to build an AI project?
The timeline for an AI software development project can be determined by analysing project complexity and specific requirements. Usually AI projects take from a few weeks to several months.

How much does it cost to develop an AI-based app?
AI App development cost depends upon the following parameters:

Complexity of the AI model
Quality and volume of training data
Development team expertise
App features you need
Deployment and maintenance
Providing AI consulting services, we offer guilt-free estimates. Talk to our experts today for a quick project estimation.

How do you handle data privacy and security in AI development?
As an AI development company, we prioritise data privacy and security. We implement best practices and industry standard regulations to enhance data security of the application. Our developers ensure proper data governance throughout the development process.

Some of the key methods we follow to improve data security under AI development services are:

Data minimisation by only collecting necessary data
Data anonymisation for protecting individual identities
Strong access controls to limit access to sensitive information
Perform regular security audits to identify vulnerabilities
Transparent data handling to inform users how their data is used
Compliance with relevant data privacy regulations like GDPR and CCPA
How do you ensure the quality of AI solutions?
Quality assurance is an integral aspect of all development projects. We implement rigorous testing, validation, and continuous monitoring of projects to build secure and reliable AI applications that meet business industry standards. We have fostered a culture of data governance and ethical considerations to address potential biases in the data and model outputs.

Do you offer post-launch support for AI solutions?
Yes, we provide support and maintenance services for artificial intelligence projects. We can help you with various issues like troubleshooting, performing technology updates, resolving bugs and updating the code with new functional features. We also use the best AI tools for keeping your software solutions up-to-date with the latest technology trends.

How do you approach AI integration with existing systems?
We perform in-depth research to analyse your current IT infrastructure and existing processes and build compatible AI solutions that can be integrated into it. This helps with a smooth transition for the business to adopt AI into their processes. Consequently businesses get AI powered functional code seamlessly.

Our latest thinking & news
Low-Code/No-Code: The Future of Rapid & Cost-Effective Web Development
Low-Code/No-Code: The Future of Rapid & Cost-Effective Web Development
Do you need to quickly launch your digital presence? Believe it or not, there are now many intuitive drag and drop tools..

Read More
Hyvä Theme Becomes Open Source – A New Era for Launching Magento Stores
Hyvä Theme Becomes Open Source – A New Era for Launching Magento Stores
The Magento world has just witnessed a defining moment. Hyvä Theme, long recognised as the gold standard for launching ..

Read More
chilliapple Recognised Among Top eCommerce Development Companies in UK by Techreviewer.co
chilliapple Recognised Among Top eCommerce Development Companies in UK by Techreviewer.co
We are delighted to share that chilliapple has been listed among the top eCommerce development companies in 2025 by Tech..

Read More
Let's talk
CALL US ON
01732 753 101
EMAIL US AT
info@chilliapple.co.uk
Find us at
Pluto House, 6 Vale Avenue, Tunbridge Wells, Kent, TN1 1DJ
Follow Us
Let's talk
Name*
Email address*
Mobile number*
Website / URL
Enquiry Type*
How can we help?*
Attach your files
Send Now
WINNER 2018
KENT
DIGITAL AWARDS
WINNER
Registered in England & Wales No.: 06683439. Copyright © 2025. All Rights Reserved. Terms | Privacy

Kent
London
Brighton
Birmingham
Leicester
Manchester
This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to collect information about how you interact with our website and allow us to remember you. We use this information in order to improve and customize your browsing experience and for analytics and metrics about our visitors both on this website and other media.

Accept Decline

